---
tags:
  - eei4366
---
# Enhanced ER (EER) Model

The EER model introduces additional concepts and notations to provide a more robust and expressive way to represent the structure and relationships in a database.

## Subtypes and Supertypes

EER allows for the modeling of hierarchical relationships between entity types.

1. **Supertype:** A supertype is a generalized entity type that represents a broader category or class of entities.
    
2. **Subtype:** A subtype is a specialized entity type that inherits attributes and characteristics from its supertype.
## Specialization and Generalization

In the EER model, specialization is used to create subtypes from a supertype and generalization to create a supertype from subtypes. 

1. **Specialization:**
    
	Specialization is the process of creating subtypes from a supertype, thereby dividing a more general entity type (the supertype) into more specific categories (the subtypes).
        
2. **Generalization:**
    
    Generalization is the reverse process of specialization. It involves creating a more general entity type (the supertype) by abstracting common attributes and relationships from several subtypes.

## Union Types 

A union type is an entity type that encompasses entities that can be classified into multiple, usually non-overlapping, entity types. 

> [!note]
> It is a way to represent the idea that certain entities do not neatly fit into a single category but exhibit characteristics from multiple categories.

Union types are particularly valuable in modeling scenarios where entities can possess attributes or relationships from different domains or categories. 

> [!example]
> Consider a database for a library. Books could be categorized into genres like "Mystery," "Science Fiction," and "Romance." However, a book can belong to multiple genres simultaneously, such as a "Mystery" and "Science Fiction" book. 

## Overlapping and Disjoint Constraints 

EER allows to specify constraints on subtype relationships, indicating whether subtypes can have overlapping or disjoint sets of entities.

### Overlapping Constraints

Overlapping constraints allow entities to belong to more than one subtype simultaneously. 

Overlapping constraints are typically used when there are shared characteristics or attributes among subtypes, and entities can have multiple roles or characteristics that do not conflict with each other. 

> [!example] 
> In a database for a retail store, you might have subtypes for "Regular Customers" and "Online Customers." Some customers may belong to both subtypes, as they can be both regular in-store shoppers and online customers.

### Disjoint Constraints

Disjoint constraints dictate that an entity can belong to only one subtype at a time. 

Disjoint constraints are used when the subtypes represent mutually exclusive categories, and an entity cannot simultaneously exhibit characteristics of more than one subtype. 

>[!example]
>In a database for a car rental company, you might have subtypes for "Sedans" and "SUVs." If an entity is a vehicle, it can belong to either the "Sedans" subtype or the "SUVs" subtype but not both because a car cannot be both a sedan and an SUV at the same time.

## Derived Attributes 

Derived attributes are attributes whose values can be obtained by applying some computation or transformation to other attributes within the database.

They are commonly used when there are attributes that can be derived logically or mathematically from other data. This is especially useful for improving data integrity and consistency, as it ensures that derived attributes are always up to date and accurate without needing manual updates.

## Categories and Attributes

EER allows the categorization of entities based on categories. Attributes can be categorized and associated with specific entity types, which makes it easier to model complex data structures.

### Categories

Categories, in this context, refer to the grouping or classification of entities based on shared characteristics or properties. Categories are a way to organize and classify data, helping to make sense of the information within a database.
   
They are used to group entities that have something in common, such as shared attributes or behaviors. 

> [!example]
> in a database for an e-commerce website, you might have categories like "Electronics," "Clothing," and "Books" to organize the products.

### Attributes

Attributes are properties or characteristics that describe entities within a category. They represent the data associated with the entities and provide information about them. Attributes can have data types, constraints, and values.
   
Attributes capture the specifics of an entity. 

> [!example]
> in a database for a "Customer" category, attributes might include "Customer ID," "Name," "Email," and "Address."