---
dg-publish: true
---

# Consumer Protection Law

The main purpose of this law is to s<mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">afeguard the rights of consumers</mark> who are often subjected to market exploitations.

Laws which provided protection to consumers
1. Food Act No 26 of 1980 
2. Cosmetic Devices and Drug Act No 1 of 1979 
3. Control of Price Act 
4. Consumer Protection Authority Act No 9 of 2003

## Rights of Consumers

- Right to safety
- Right to be informed about proper quality and quantity 
- Right to choose 
- Right to be heard 
- Right to seek relief


## Regulatory Bodies

These are government <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">agencies or organizations established to oversee and enforce consumer protection laws and regulations.</mark>

### Consumer Affair Authority

This is a regulatory body <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">established under the Consumer Affairs Authority Act No. 9 of 2003</mark> in Sri Lanka. 

It plays a crucial role in enforcing and regulating consumer protection laws in the country. 

The key responsibilities and functions of the CAA include:

- Enforcing laws related to <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">unfair trade practices</mark>, product quality, and pricing.
- <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">Investigating and addressing consumer complaints</mark> regarding deceptive or harmful business practices.
- <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">Setting standards for product quality</mark>, safety, and labeling.
- <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">Regulating prices</mark>, particularly during emergencies or in cases of significant price escalations.
- Promoting consumer awareness and education on consumer rights and responsibilities.
- Offering mechanisms for alternative dispute resolution to resolve consumer-business disputes.

### Consumer Affairs Council

This is a<mark style="background: #FF5582A6;"> separate entity that works alongside the Consumer Affairs Authority.</mark> It is a council formed under the Consumer Affairs Authority Act and consists of various stakeholders, including consumer representatives, businesses, and government officials.

The CAC typically serves as an advisory body and may have the following functions:
- Advising the Consumer Affairs Authority on policy matters related to consumer protection and regulation.
- Providing input and recommendations on consumer rights and related issues.
- Collaborating with the government and businesses to ensure the interests and concerns of consumers are considered in policy and regulatory decisions.


## Powers of the Consumer Affairs Authority

1. **Issuing Directions on Price Marking, Labelling, and Packaging:** The authority can issue <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">directives to manufacturers and traders regarding how goods should be priced, labeled, and packaged.</mark> 
    
2. **Determining Standards and Specifications:** The authority can <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">set standards and specifications for goods and services.</mark> 
    
3. **Handling Complaints:** The authority has the power <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">to investigate and address consumer complaints related to unfair trade practices, product quality, pricing, or other issues.</mark> 
    
4. **Entering into Agreements with Manufacturers and Traders:** The authority can <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">negotiate agreements with manufacturers, traders, or trade associations to establish rules and conditions</mark> for the manufacturing, import, supply, storage, distribution, transportation, marketing, labeling, and sale of goods. 
    
5. **Investigating Matters:** The authority can <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">investigate various matters related to consumer protection and trade practices.</mark> 
    
6. **Prosecution of Offenses:** The authority has the power to <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">prosecute individuals or businesses that violate the laws and regulations related to consumer protection and trade practices.</mark> 
    
7. **Advisory Functions:** When the minister refers specific matters for examination and report, the authority can provide advisory functions by <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">conducting investigations, analysis, and providing recommendations on consumer protection and trade-related issues.</mark>
    
8. **Publication of Reports:** The authority can <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">publish reports on its findings, investigations, and recommendations.</mark> 
    
9. **Registration of Traders:** The authority may have the power <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">to register traders, which helps in tracking and regulating businesses in the marketplace.</mark> Registration can be a means of ensuring that businesses comply with relevant regulations and standards.

## Offences under the Consumer Affairs and Authority Act

These are actions or behaviors that are prohibited by the law and can result in penalties or legal consequences. These offenses are typically designed to protect consumers, promote fair trade practices, and ensure that businesses operate in accordance with regulations.

Here's a breakdown of the specific offenses:

1. **Refusal to Sell Goods:** Traders who have <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">goods in their possession or control but refuse to sell them</mark> may be in violation of the law. 
    
2. **Price Gouging:** <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">Increasing the retail or wholesale prices of goods</mark> that have had their prices prescribed by the Minister and published in the Gazette is an offense. 
    
3. **False Representations:** Making <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">false statements or misrepresentations in connection with the supply,</mark> possible supply, or promotion of goods or services is an offense. 
    
4. **Non-compliance with Compensation Orders:** <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">Failing or refusing to pay compensation or refund</mark> a specified amount as directed by the Authority within a specified period is an offense.
    
5. **Anti-Competitive Practices:**<mark style="background: #FF5582A6;"> Engaging in anti-competitive practices</mark>, which can include activities that harm competition, such as monopolistic behavior, collusion, or other unfair business practices, is prohibited.
    
6. **Contempt of Authority:** <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">Showing contempt or disrespect for the Authority</mark> during an investigation into anti-competitive practices can result in legal consequences.
    
7. **Failure to Provide Information:** <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">Failing or refusing to furnish requested returns </mark>or other information during an inquiry or investigation by the Council is an offense. 
    
8. **Making False Statements or Providing False Information:** <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">Knowingly making false statements or furnishing false information when required by the Authority</mark> is an offense, as it hinders the authority's ability to enforce the law effectively.
    
9. **Obstructing Inspections:** <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">Obstructing officers who enter, inspect, and search premises</mark> as part of their regulatory duties is an offense.
    
10. **Non-compliance with Orders:** <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">Failing or refusing to comply with orders made by the Council</mark> after an inquiry or investigation can lead to legal consequences. 