---
dg-home: true
---

## HCI

**Why is HCI considered as an interdisciplinary project?**

Since disciplines such as sociology, ergonomics, ai, linguistics are <mark style="background: #FFB8EBA6;">necessary for understanding the interaction between computer and the user</mark>, it's inevitable to not consider these disciplines in developing an application.

- **Cognitive psychology:** 
  Understanding the <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">human behaviors and mental processes</mark> that are related to it.
  
- **Ergonomics or Human factors:** 
  This discipline contributes to HCI by helping developers to optimize human interaction and usability with digital products.


**Internal manifestations of a user about how to interact with a system.**

1. <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">cognitive psychology </mark>
- helps understand the user ability to execute certain task within the given context

2. <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">ergonomics and human factors</mark>
- helps design products that interact with humans seamlessly.


## Mental models

**What are the mental models?** 
**What happends if the user's mental does not match the designer's conceptual model?**

Mental models refer to the internal representations that users develop to <mark style="background: #CACFD9A6;">understand how a system or product works and how to interact with it.
</mark>

## Gulf of execution

A concept that relates to the difficulty a person may face in translating their intentions or goals into specific actions or commands that can be understood and executed by a system or device.

**Bridging the gulf of execution**

- learn the system 
- utilize affordances 
- seek assistance


## Gulf of evaluation

The difficulty a person may encounter in assessing and understanding the feedback or output provided by a system or device based on their own goals and expectations.

**Bridging the gulf of evaluation**

- establish clear goals 
- seek feedback 
- iterate and adjust


# Usability testing

Usability testing is about <mark style="background: #ADCCFFA6;">evaluating the usability and ux of a system or interface.</mark>

- helps identify the problems related to interactivity 
- helps determine and align with baseline goals and objectives 
- helps improve the user satisfaction 
- helps improve product usability
- helps save time and resources adds competitive advantage


**Explain key stages in conducting a usability testing?**

- develop the test plan 
- select and acquire the participants to perform the test
- prepare the necessary test materials 
- run a pilot test 
- conduct the real test analyses results and prepare the final report


**Describe two main usability testing methods.**

The process of comparing the user interface or a system against certain usability principles with a help of industry experts. 

- <mark style="background: #ADCCFFA6;">co-discovery</mark> is the process of two people observing a person performing a certain task. 

- <mark style="background: #FFF3A3A6;">thinking aloud evaluation</mark> is the where the users express their opinions of how the system works after using it


## Usability engineering lifecycle process

The usability engineering life cycle process is a <mark style="background: #ADCCFFA6;">systematic approach to incorporating user-centered design principles and usability testing throughout the development of a product</mark> or system.

**What are the attributes of usability according to Nielsen?**

- visibility of system status 
- match between system and real world 
- user control and freedom
- consistency and standards error prevention and handling


## Common prototyping methods

**Explain two of the common prototyping methods used in iterative design.**

1. <mark style="background: #ABF7F7A6;">paper prototype: </mark>
   Creating low-fidelity, hand-drawn or printed representations of the user interface and interaction flows on paper. 
   
2. <mark style="background: #ABF7F7A6;">Interactive Digital Prototyping: </mark>
   Creating a digital representation of the user interface and interaction using software tools specifically designed for prototyping.

   is the process of implementing user-centered design principles and usability testing throughout the SDLC.











