---
dg-publish: true
tags:
  - agm4367
---
# National Income

> [!definition]
> #Q
> National income :: is the total value of all the final goods and services produced in a country during a specific period of time. 
> #/Q

## Gross Domestic Product

> [!Definition]
> #Q
> Gross Domestic Product :: It is the total monetary or market value of all the finished goods and services produced within a country's borders in a specific time period.
> #/Q

#Q
GDP can be calculated in three ways::
1. **Expenditure approach:**Â This method <mark style="background: #FFF3A3A6;">sums up the value of all goods and services consumed by households, businesses, and the government, as well as net exports.</mark>
2. **Production approach:**Â This method <mark style="background: #FFB8EBA6;">sums up the value of all goods and services produced by all industries in the economy.</mark>
3. **Income approach:**Â This method <mark style="background: #FFB8EBA6;">sums up all wages, salaries, profits, and other forms of income earned by individuals and businesses in the economy.</mark>

#/Q 

> [!tip]
> Real GDP takes into account the effects of inflation while nominal GDP does not.

### Real GDP

> [!definition]
> #Q
> Real GDP :: It is the <mark style="background: #FFF3A3A6;">total market value of all final goods and services produced within a country</mark>'s borders during a specific period of time, adjusted for inflation.
> #/Q 

```
Real GDP = Nominal GDP / Price Index

```

> [!definition]
> #Q
> Market prices :: <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">measures the total value of goods and services</mark> produced in a country during a specific time period while adjusting for changes in price levels.
> #/Q 

> [!example]
> Suppose a country has a nominal GDP of $1 billion and a price index of 1.10. This means that the country's real GDP is $909 million.

### Nominal GDP

> [!definition]
> #Q
> Nominal GDP is the total market value of all final goods and services produced within a country's borders during a specific period of time,<mark style="background: #FFB8EBA6;"> at current prices.</mark>
> #Q

```
Nominal GDP = Quantity of goods and services produced * Price of goods and services
```

> [!definition]
> #Q
> Current prices :: represents the total value of goods and services produced in a country during a specific time period, typically a year or a quarter, <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">without adjusting for changes in price levels.</mark> In other words, it reflects the economic output using the prices that are prevailing in the year of measurement.
> #/Q 

> [!example]
> Suppose a country produces 100 widgets in a year and each widget sells for $10. The country's nominal GDP would be $1,000.

The sum of financial value of consumption (C), gross investment (I), government purchases of goods and services ( G ), and net exports ( X ) produced within a nation during a given year is
considered as GDP and can be stated as follows. 

$$
GDP=C+I+G+X
$$
> [!tip]
> GDP measures the value of final goods and services to avoid double counting.

> [!tip]
> GDP considers the currently produced output of a product or service. It does not take into account the already existing buildings or houses.

> [!tip]
> Goods and services are valued at the market price

### Income Approach
#Q #AOSR/2eopg
The income approach :: to measuring gross domestic product (GDP) is based on the accounting principle that <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">all expenditures in an economy should equal the total income generated by the production of all that economy's goods and services. #AOSR/2eopg/s/57sf
</mark>
#/Q 
#### Components
#Q 
Components of Income approach ::
- **Compensation of employees:**Â This includes wages, salaries, bonuses, and other forms of compensation paid to employees.
  
- **Net operating surplus:**Â This is the income of businesses after all costs of production have been paid, including taxes on production and imports minus subsidies on production.
  
- **Depreciation:**Â This is the allowance for the wear and tear of capital assets, such as machinery and equipment.
  
- **Net factor income from abroad:**Â This is the difference between the income earned by residents from foreign investments and the income earned by foreign residents within the country's borders.
#/Q 
### **Expenditure Approach**
#Q #AOSR/2ie7e
The expenditure approach :: to GDP is based on the idea that <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">all production must be consumed or invested.</mark> It measures GDP by adding up all the spending on final goods and services in an economy over a set period of time. #AOSR/2ie7e/s/5hv7
#/Q 
#### Components
#Q 
Components of expenditure approach ::
- **Consumption:**Â This is the spending by households on goods and services.
- **Investment:**Â This is the spending by businesses on capital goods, such as machinery and equipment, and on inventories.
- **Government spending:**Â This is the spending by government on goods and services.
- **Net exports:**Â This is the difference between a country's exports and its imports.
#/Q 
### **Value-added approach**
#Q #AOSR/7eapu
The value-added approach :: to GDP <mark style="background: #FFF3A3A6;">measures the contribution of each industry to the overall economy.</mark> It does this by adding up the value added by each industry in the economy.  #AOSR/7eapu/s/517p
#/Q 

> [!tip]
> #Q
> Value added :: is the difference between the value of the goods and services produced by an industry and the value of the intermediate goods and services used in the production process.
> #/Q 

#### Components

#Q 
Components of Value-added approach ::
- **Agriculture:**Â This includes the production of crops and livestock.
- **Mining:**Â This includes the extraction of minerals and other resources from the ground.
- **Manufacturing:**Â This includes the production of goods from raw materials.
- **Construction:**Â This includes the building and maintenance of structures.
- **Trade, transportation, and communications:**Â This includes the distribution of goods and services, as well as the provision of communication services.
- **Finance, insurance, and real estate:**Â This includes the provision of financial services, insurance, and real estate transactions.
- **Government services:**Â This includes the provision of government services, such as education, healthcare, and security.
#/Q 
### Limitations

#Q 
Limitations of GDP ::
- **GDP does not measure the quality of goods and services produced.**
	- For example, a country that produces a lot of low-quality goods will have a higher GDP than a country that produces a few high-quality goods.
  
- **GDP does not take into account the distribution of income.**Â 
	- A country with a high GDP could have a very unequal distribution of income, with a small percentage of the population earning a large majority of the income.
  
- **GDP does not measure the sustainability of economic growth.**Â 
	- A country could have high GDP growth in the short term by depleting its natural resources or by polluting the environment. 
  
- **GDP does not measure non-market activities.**
	- These include activities such as childcare, volunteer work, and housework. 
#/Q 

## Gross National Product (GNP)

> [!Definition]
> #Q
> Gross National Product :: It is an economic measure of the total market value of all final goods and services produced in a specific period of time (usually a year) by a country's residents, both domestically and abroad.
> #/Q 

### Formula

```
GNP = GDP + Net factor income from abroad
```

> [!example]
> Suppose a country has a GDP of $1 trillion and net factor income from abroad of $100 billion. The country's GNP would be $1.1 trillion. This means that the country's residents produced $1.1 trillion worth of goods and services in the year, both domestically and abroad.


#Q
GNP can be used for a variety of purposes, including::
- Measuring the size and growth of a country's economy.
- Comparing the economies of different countries.
- Assessing the impact of government policies on economic growth.
- Making decisions about foreign investment.
#/Q 
## **Net Domestic Product (NDP)**

> [!definition]
> #Q 
> Net Domestic Product :: It is the total market value of all final goods and services produced within a country's borders during a specific period of time, minus the value of depreciation of capital assets.
> #/Q 

### Formula
```
NDP = GDP - Depreciation
```

> [!example]
> Suppose a country has a GDP of $1 trillion and depreciation of $100 billion. The country's NDP would be $900 billion. This means that the country's residents produced $900 billion worth of goods and services in the year, after taking into account the wear and tear on capital assets.

#Q
NDP can be used for a variety of purposes, including::
- Measuring the size and growth of a country's economy.
- Comparing the economies of different countries.
- Assessing the impact of government policies on economic growth.
- Making decisions about investment.
#/Q 

## Price Indices

> [!definition]
> #Q
> Price Indicies :: are used to measure changes in the overall price level of goods and services in an economy.
> #/Q 

#Q #AOSR/1nbh3
- Consumer Price Index (CPI):: The CPI measures <mark style="background: #FFB8EBA6;">the change in the cost of living for a typical urban household.</mark> #AOSR/1nbh3/s/1hb8
	- It is calculated by tracking the prices of a basket of goods and services that are commonly purchased by households.
#/Q 

#Q #AOSR/2c0f3
- Producer Price Index (PPI):: The PPI measures the <mark style="background: #FFB8EBA6;">change in the prices that producers receive for their goods and services.</mark> #AOSR/2c0f3/s/3qvp
	- It is calculated by tracking the prices of a basket of goods and services that are sold by producers.
#/Q 

#Q  #AOSR/2cqhm
- GDP deflator :: The GDP deflator is a price index that is used to <mark style="background: #FFB8EBA6;">measure the change in the prices of all goods and services produced in an economy.</mark> #AOSR/2cqhm/s/27i4
	- It is calculated by dividing nominal GDP by real GDP.
#/Q 
$$
\text{GDP deflator} = \frac{\text{Nominal GDP}}{\text{Real GDP}}\times 100
$$

$$
\text{Inflation in year 2} = \frac{\text{GDP deflator in year 2 - GDP deflator in year 1}}{\text{GDP deflator in year 1}}
$$

## **Personal disposable income (DPI)**

> [!definition]
> #Q
> Personal disposable income :: The amount of money that individuals or households have to spend or save after income taxes have been deducted. It is calculated by subtracting personal income taxes from personal income.
> #/Q 

> [!tip]
> It is calculated by subtracting personal income taxes from personal income.

```
ğ‘ƒğ‘’ğ‘Ÿğ‘ ğ‘œğ‘›ğ‘ğ‘™ ğ·ğ‘–ğ‘ ğ‘ğ‘œğ‘ ğ‘ğ‘ğ‘™ğ‘’ ğ¼ğ‘›ğ‘ğ‘œğ‘šğ‘’ â‰¡ ğºğ·ğ‘ƒ + ğ‘›ğ‘’ğ‘¡ ğ‘“ğ‘ğ‘ğ‘¡ğ‘œğ‘Ÿ ğ‘–ğ‘›ğ‘ğ‘œğ‘šğ‘’ ğ‘“ğ‘Ÿğ‘œğ‘š ğ‘ğ‘ğ‘Ÿğ‘œğ‘ğ‘‘ âˆ’ ğ‘‘ğ‘’ğ‘ğ‘Ÿğ‘’ğ‘ğ‘–ğ‘ğ‘¡ğ‘–ğ‘œğ‘› âˆ’ ğ‘Ÿğ‘’ğ‘¡ğ‘ğ‘›ğ‘’ğ‘‘ ğ‘’ğ‘ğ‘Ÿğ‘›ğ‘–ğ‘›ğ‘”ğ‘  + ğ‘¡ğ‘Ÿğ‘ğ‘›ğ‘ ğ‘“ğ‘’ğ‘Ÿğ‘  âˆ’ ğ‘¡ğ‘ğ‘¥ğ‘’ğ‘ 
```