
# Introduction to Mobile Applications


- what is Mobile Application?
	-a type of application software designed to run on a mobile device, such as smart phone , tablet.


*Key drivers for Mobile Application*

- Innovation
- Consumer behavior
- Personalized content delivery
- Mobile ecosystem
- Social networking


*Impact of Mobile apps on various domains*

-Mobile apps are impacting industry verticals and functional domains.

- Retail and consumer packaged goods
- Banking industry
- Logistics
- Healthcare


*Attributes of Mobile Applications*

- Ubiquity : always available and connected and enable users to access information anytime anywhere.

- User friendliness : provide responsive and interactive user interface with essential information. they utilizes interfaces for providing simplified actionable information.

- Location awareness : provide location sensitive information using GPS and other sensors.

- Minimalistic : content and features in mobile apps are minimal which are essential for functionality.


*Utility of Mobile App*
- Engagement 
- Productivity
- Revenue
- Conversion
- Loyalty

*Types of Apps*
- Hybrid
- Native
- Mobile Web

 *principles*
 - User Experience
 - Security 
 - Management
 - Hosting

*Mobile Users*
- Consumers
- Business
- Partners
- Employees


***The Main Consideration for Mobile App Design***

- Intended utility of the mobile app
- App architecture 
- App development principles
- Target users
- Testing


***The Main Challenges in Mobile App***

- Diversity of devices and heterogenous technologies
- Security
- User experience
- Network


***Types of Application***

1. Pc Base Application
2. Web Based Application


*Pc Based Application*

1. Standalone PC application
	- an application that runs locally on the device and doesn't need an internet connection or any other services installed.
	
2. Client server application
	- each terminal PC had a client software which is connected to a centralized server software. 
	- the client program get input  from the end user and submit the details to the server software through dedicated session through the network 


*Web Based Application*

- Internet enabled applications that are mainly rendered on desktop browsers are categorized as web application.
- most of the modern web application follow layered MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (MVC) architecture. 

-The key layers of the MVC Framework

- Presentation Layer(View layer)
	-user experience components such as portlets, widgets, pages, user interface modules, buttons and forms are present this layer.

- Business layer
	-this layer consists of business component which implement business logic and business rules.

- Data layer(Model Layer)
	-mainly consists of persistence handling components such as database access components, data access objects, query components.


*Evolution of Mobile Based Applications*

	Embedded system -> Device specific apps -> OS specific apps -> Cloud based apps

*Content and protocol in Mobility*

- Wireless Application Protocol (WAP)
	-provides specifications and rules for wireless communication devices. 
	-WAP is optimized for low memory, low bandwidth mobile devices.

- Representational State Transfer (REST)
	-responsive mobile web application communicate with server using light weight REST service calls. Normally JSON data is used in REST service for data exchange