---
dg-publish: true
---

# Quality Models
A quality model is a <mark style="background: #FFF3A3A6;">framework or set of criteria used to assess and evaluate the quality of a product or service.</mark> It provides a structured approach to measure, analyze, and improve the various dimensions of quality.

## Generalized Models
These models are applicable across different industries and products.
### ISO
It is an independent, non-governmental international organization that <mark style="background: #FFF3A3A6;">develops and publishes standards across various industries and sectors.</mark>

ISO standards cover a broad range of areas and are applicable to various industries

#### ISO 9001
This standard outlines a <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">systematic approach to achieving and maintaining quality</mark> within an organization.

#### ISO/IEC 15504
ISO/IEC 15504, also known as SPICE (Software Process Improvement and Capability Determination), is a <mark style="background: #FFF3A3A6;">standard for assessing and improving software development processes.</mark> 

#### ISO/IEC/IEEE 12207
A framework and guidelines for <mark style="background: #ADCCFFA6;">software development, maintenance, and management processes.</mark>


### Six  Sigma
A data-driven approach aimed at <mark style="background: #FFF3A3A6;">reducing defects and improving process performance</mark> by systematically reducing process waste.

#### levels
- **Sigma Level 1 (1σ)**: At this level,<mark style="background: #ADCCFFA6;"> the process has a high defect rate</mark>, with DPMO ranging from 691,462 to 691,462 defects per million opportunities.
- **Sigma Level 2 (2σ)**: This level signifies a<mark style="background: #ADCCFFA6;"> slightly improved process performance.</mark>
- **Sigma Level 3 (3σ)**: At this level, <mark style="background: #ADCCFFA6;">the process performance is moderate.</mark>
- **Sigma Level 4 (4σ)**: This level <mark style="background: #ADCCFFA6;">represents a significant improvement in process performance.</mark>
- **Sigma Level 5 (5σ)**: At this level, <mark style="background: #ADCCFFA6;">the process performance is highly reliable</mark>, with DPMO ranging from 233 to 6,210 defects per million opportunities.
- **Sigma Level 6 (6σ)**: This is the <mark style="background: #ADCCFFA6;">highest level of process performance in Six Sigma.</mark>

#### steps in measuring six sigma level
- **Define the Defect**: Clearly define <mark style="background: #ADCCFFA6;">what constitutes a defect in the context of the process being measured.</mark>
- **Identify the Opportunities**: <mark style="background: #ADCCFFA6;">Identify all the potential opportunities for the defect</mark> to occur within the process.
- **Collect Data**: <mark style="background: #ADCCFFA6;">Collect data on the defects and the corresponding number of opportunities observed over a defined period of time or sample size.</mark>
- **Calculate DPMO**: <mark style="background: #ADCCFFA6;">Determine the total number of defects and the total number of opportunities.</mark>
- **Determine Sigma Level**: Once the <mark style="background: #ADCCFFA6;">DPMO is calculated, reference a Six Sigma conversion table or use statistical software to determine the corresponding sigma level.</mark>

### Lean Manufacturing/Lean Six Sigma
Lean principles focus on <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">identifying and eliminating waste (non-value-added activities) in processes to improve efficiency and value delivery.</mark>
#### techniques
- Kanban
- Kaizen
- Value Stream Mapping
- 5S Tool
## Product-specific Models
These models are <mark style="background: #FFF3A3A6;">tailored to a specific product or industry.</mark> They consider the unique characteristics and requirements of the product or service being assessed.

### CMMI
It is a process improvement approach that provides <mark style="background: #ADCCFFA6;">a set of best practices to enhance the efficiency, effectiveness, and quality</mark> of an organization's processes.

CMMI focuses on improving process performance by <mark style="background: #ADCCFFA6;">establishing standard practices, measuring performance, and implementing process improvements based on quantitative analysis.</mark>

CMMI specifically focuses on process improvement within<mark style="background: #FF5582A6;"> software development and engineering organizations.</mark>
#### levels
- Level 1: Initial
	- Characterized by an unpredictable and chaotic environment.
	- Processes are ad hoc, poorly defined, and inconsistently implemented.
- Level 2: Managed
	- Basic project management processes are established.
	- Processes are planned, performed, measured, and controlled.
- Level 3: Defined
	- Organization-wide process standards and procedures are defined and documented.
	- Processes are tailored and integrated across the organization.
- Level 4: Quantitatively Managed
	- Processes are measured and controlled quantitatively.
	- Data-driven management and decision-making are emphasized.
- Level 5: Optimizing
	- Continuous process improvement is ingrained in the organization's culture.
	- Processes are continually monitored, evaluated, and optimized to achieve higher levels of performance.
### Agile
Agile is an iterative and incremental approach to software development that emphasizes flexibility, collaboration, and delivering customer value.

# Defect Analysis
Defect analysis is a <mark style="background: #ADCCFFA6;">systematic process of investigating and understanding defects or issues</mark> that occur in a product or process.

## Defect Density
Defect density is a <mark style="background: #FFF3A3A6;">software metric that measures the number of defects or bugs present in a software component or system relative to its size or volume.</mark>

## Defect Density Model
Defect density models are used to <mark style="background: #FFB86CA6;">measure and track the quality of a product</mark> by quantifying the number of defects found within a specific unit of  code, function points, or test cases.

## Advantages of Defect Analysis
- Removal of potential defects
- Improving development process
- Preventing injection of similar defects in the future
- Managing risks by doing better planning early

## Types of Defect Analysis
- Defect distribution analysis
	- <mark style="background: #FFF3A3A6;">Examining the distribution of defects across various components</mark>, modules, or areas of a product.
- Defects trend analysis
	- <mark style="background: #FFF3A3A6;">Tracking and analyzing the trends and patterns of defects</mark> over time.
- Defect casual analysis
	- <mark style="background: #ABF7F7A6;">Identify the root causes or underlying factors</mark> contributing to the occurrence of defects.


## Defect Report
```
Defect ID: #125ADF 

Defect Title: Information Retrival Error

1.  Defect Description: There is HTTP 500 Time out error upon trying to display values into a list box.
    
2.  Steps to Reproduce: 
   - Visit the website
   - Navigate to the list box
   - Press on list box
    
3.  Expected Result: 
   - The list box should list all the information
    
4.  Actual Result: 
   - HTTP 500 Error
    
6.  Severity: High
    
7.  Priority: High
    
8.  Detected By: Quality Assurance Engineer
    
9.  Assigned To: Developer
    
10.  Defect Status: Open
    
12.  Attachments: Screenshot_1.jpg
```

