---
dg-publish: true
---

# Test Automation
The use of <mark style="background: #FFF3A3A6;">software tools and frameworks to automate the execution of tests in software development.</mark>

# Design Patterns
Design patterns in test automation are <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">reusable solutions or templates that address common challenges and promote best practices</mark> in designing and implementing automated tests.

- **Page Object Model**:
	- A design pattern that <mark style="background: #ADCCFFA6;">separates the representation of web pages from the test automation logic.</mark>
- **Page Factory Model**: 
	- An extension of the Page Object Model that <mark style="background: #ADCCFFA6;">automates the initialization of web elements in Page Objects.</mark>
- **Facade Design Pattern**:
	- A simplified interface or "facade" that <mark style="background: #ADCCFFA6;">hides the complexities of underlying systems or components.</mark>
- **Observer Design Pattern**:
	- A one-to-many dependency between objects, where <mark style="background: #ABF7F7A6;">changes in one object (the subject) are automatically propagated to other dependent objects (observers).</mark>
- **Strategy Design Pattern**:
	- It allows <mark style="background: #FFF3A3A6;">selecting an algorithm or behavior at runtime, based on specific conditions or requirements.</mark>

## Exception Handling
Exceptional conditions are things that occur in a system that are not expected or are not a part of normal system operation.

## Testing Planning
The test plan describes how testing will be accomplished.

## Test Case Designing
A test case is a document that describes an input, action or event and an expected response, to determine if a feature of an application is working correctly.

### Error
A mistake or an incorrect action made by a person during the software development process.
### Defect
This is the deviation from the expected behavior in a software product.

### Bug
This is how we describe a defect or an error in software.
### Failure
inability of a system or software to perform its intended function.