---
dg-publish: true
---

# Requirements Validation and Reviews
## Desk Checking (Self-Inspection)
Is the intense examination of a software to ensure it's quality.

## Technical Review
A technical review in QA (Quality Assurance) is a <mark style="background: #ADCCFFA6;">systematic examination of software or hardware components to identify potential defects or areas of improvement.</mark>

## walk-through
An informal review technique where ==the software artifacts are presented to a group of stakeholders,== including developers, testers, and other relevant individuals.
>Walkthrough is led by (producer, moderator, reader and reviewer, and recorder).
## Inspection
A formal Planning phase, Kick-off phase, the preparation phase, review meeting phase, rework phase, and follow-up phase.review technique in which a ==group of reviewers examines the software artifacts==, such as requirements documents, design specifications, or source code, to identify defects, inconsistencies, and potential issues.
>Inspection is lead by author.

### Phases of a formal review

Planning --> Kick-off --> Preparation --> Review Modelling --> Rework --> Follow-up

## Prototyping

This is a working model with some limited functionality.

### Usage
- When a system requires extensive interaction with end users, such as online systems or web interfaces.
- In scenarios where creating a system that is easy to use and requires minimal training for end users is a priority.
- Prototyping is highly beneficial for designing effective human-computer interface systems.
### Type
- Throwaway prototyping
	- Quickly developing a prototype <mark style="background: #ADCCFFA6;">that is not intended to be a part of the final product.</mark>
- Evolutionary Prototyping
	- An initial prototype that is <mark style="background: #ADCCFFA6;">continuously refined and enhanced based on feedback and evolving requirements.</mark>
- Incremental Prototyping
	- An iterative development approach that involves <mark style="background: #ADCCFFA6;">building a system or product gradually, adding new features and functionality in successive increments or versions.</mark>


**Statistical process control (SPC)** is defined as <mark style="background: #ADCCFFA6;">the use of statistical techniques to control a process or production method.</mark>

