
# Question-03
```sql
select Therapist.therapistName, Treatments.TName
from TreatmentOfferedBy
inner join Treatments on TreatmentOfferedBy.TId=Treatments.TId
inner join Therapist on TreatmentOfferedBy.therapistID = Therapist.therapistID
```

*Extra*
```sql
select Therapist.therapistName, Treatments.TName
from Therapists
inner join Treatments on Therapists.therapistID = Treatments.therapistID;
```


```sql
select *
from Appoinments
inner join Treatment on Treatment.TName=Treatment.TName
inner join TreatmentOfferedBy on TreatmentOfferedBy.TName= meah i am tired of this question
inner join Patients on Patient.PID=Appoinments.patientID
where Treatments.TName="acupuncture" and Patient.f_name="Kamal" and Patient.s_name="Senanayaka" and Patient.P_PostCode=10250;
```

# Question-04


## Question-D

Two-tier and three-tier client-server architectures are both used in the context of traditional database systems, but they have distinct characteristics, advantages, and disadvantages.

Let's compare and contrast these two architectures:

**Two-Tier Client-Server Architecture:**

1. **Client and Database Server:** In a two-tier architecture, there are two main components: the client application and the database server. The client communicates directly with the database server.

2. **Advantages:**
   - Simplicity: It's relatively straightforward to design and implement.
   - Performance: With direct database access, it can provide fast data retrieval for simple applications.

3. **Disadvantages:**
   - Limited Scalability: As the application grows, it becomes difficult to manage as both business logic and data access logic reside in the client.
   - Maintenance Challenges: Any changes or updates to the database require corresponding updates in the client application, which can be time-consuming and error-prone.
   - Security Concerns: Direct database access may expose sensitive data or lead to security vulnerabilities.

**Three-Tier Client-Server Architecture:**

1. **Client, Application Server, and Database Server:** In a three-tier architecture, there are three main components: the client application, an application server (middle tier), and the database server. The client communicates with the application server, which, in turn, communicates with the database server.

2. **Advantages:**
   - Modularity: Separation of concerns makes it easier to manage and maintain.
   - Scalability: It allows for better scalability as the application logic is separate from data access.
   - Security: The middle tier can implement security measures and access control.

3. **Disadvantages:**
   - Complexity: It's more complex to design and implement compared to the two-tier architecture.
   - Overhead: Introducing the middle tier can introduce some performance overhead due to the additional layer of communication.

**Comparison:**

- **Scalability:** Three-tier architecture is generally more scalable and adaptable to changes in the application's size and complexity. It separates the business logic from data access, allowing each tier to scale independently.

- **Maintenance:** Three-tier architecture is easier to maintain and update because changes to the database or business logic can be isolated to their respective tiers, reducing the risk of introducing errors.

- **Security:** Three-tier architecture provides better security as the middle tier can implement security measures and access control, reducing direct exposure to the database.

- **Performance:** Two-tier architecture might offer slightly better performance for simple applications due to the direct database access, but three-tier architecture can provide acceptable performance and is more suitable for complex and scalable systems.

```sql
CREATE TABLE Students (
StudentID CHAR(6),
StudentFname VARCHAR(20) NOT NULL,
StudentLname VARCHAR(20) NOT NULL,
Date_of_Birth DATE CHECK (Date_of_Birth>'2005-03-03'),
CourseCode CHAR(6) FOREIGN KEY references Courses(CourseCode),
CONSTRAINT student_pk PRIMARY KEY (Studentid));
```

```sql
CREATE TABLE Courses(

CourseCode CHAR(6) PRIMARY KEY,
CourseLevel INT ,
Fee Decimal(5,2)

);
```