---
dg-publish: true
---

# Information Systems in Organization

Information systems can serve some important functions for a  ***Business enterprise***.

- providing assistance with business process and operations.
- Employee and managers can get assistance in making decision.
- Support for strategies aimed at gaining competitive advantage.  


***TRANSACTION PROCESSING SYSTEM***

 - ensure that all of the relevant information is saved securely. 
 - everyday business transactions necessary to run a firm 

EX- Billing customers, Bank deposits, Inventory counts 

- it helps with the processing of sales order entries and other routine activities
- ensure that the data they collect from their customers and users is accurate and reliable while limiting the risk of human mistake


***OFFICE AUTOMATION SYSTEMS***

- make it easier for employee in various departments to communicate with one another and work together to complete a project.

EX- Printing and sending documents, Managing electronic messages, Maintaining a schedule for the business

- can enhance employee communication, reduce management tasks and boost the management of knowledge.


***KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM(KMS)***

- expanding their knowledge and enhancing teamwork efforts with the aim of completing the task.
- helps increase team communication
- achieving performance goals since it shares expertise and offers answers to critical queries.


***MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS(MIS)***

- question address through MIS is "Are things working well?"
- summarize and report  on the company's basics operations
- TPS is used in MIS to help middle management make better decisions
- managers will be able to fulfil their goals and oversea business divisions in a safe and systematic manner


***DECISION SUPPORT SYSTEM(DSS)***

- Data is processed by a decision support system to help managers make better decision
- Maintain and accumulates all of the necessary data and information


***EXECUTIVE SUPPORT SYSTEM***

- Senior managers use ESS to help them make decisions
- ESS are designed to incorporate data about external events 