---
dg-publish: true
---

# Computer based Information Systems(CBIS)

- Computer plays an important  role in this IS.
- Uses computer to collect , process, store, analyze and distribute information for a specific purpose.

	- created to reduce problems associated with manual IS.
	- both software and hardware in parallel to record and store data as well as analyze and retrieve it when it is needed.
	- a single press of button can backup critical data and speed up operations (which can't be done in manual IS)


Components of CBIS
- Hardware
- Software
- Procedures
- Telecom 
- People 
- Database


**HARDWARE**
- physical components of a computer.
- used to perform input, process and output functions.


**SOFTWARE**
- computer programs that control how a computer works.
- not a physical component.
- can be defined as a set of instructions.

can be in 2 forms
1. System Software
2. Application Software


**DATABASE**
- two or more files are linked together to form a single collection of facts and information.


**TELECOMMUNICATIONS, NETWORKS and INTERNET**

- Telecommunication is the electronic signal transmission of signals for communications .

-Network
	- Computer linked together in a network can share resources, exchange files and allow electronic contact. 
	- Infrared laser beams, radio waves, satellites and cables can all be used to connect computers on a network.

-Internet
	-with thousands of networks linked together the internet is the largest computer network in the world. 



**Advantages of CBIS**
- Fast data processing
- Improved data accuracy 
- Improved security 
- Reduced data duplication
- Improved backup system 
- Easy access to information

**Disadvantages of CBIS**
- Expensive to set up
- Heavy reliance on technology
- Risk of fraud
