
# Introduction to Information System..


**DATA**

- Data is a raw material.
- Data is used to represent real world items.
 
 EX- student name, marks, age, address

 - Data can be in 2 forms
 
 1. Quantitative Data
	 - data set contains a single numerical value.
	 - a quantitative approach  is used to address any concerns, including questions like "how many", "how frequently" and "how much".
 
 2. Qualitative Data
	 - data that is used to describe specific piece of information.
	 - observation and recording are methods that can be used to collect and document qualitative data.


**INFORMATION**

- Information depends on data. 
- Information  is organized way of data.
- Data that has been translated into a usable or understandable form is Information

EX- Report card of a student 

**-Characteristics of Information**
	- Accessible
	- Accurate
	- Complete
	- Flexible
	- Relevant
	- Simple
	- Secure
	- Verifiable


**KNOWLEDGE**

- The ability to recognize and utilize a collection of information to help in the completion of a given activity.
 
	 - Processing or manipulation of information might produce knowledge.

EX- Finding a location with prior experience.

- Knowledge can be in 2 forms

1. Information based Knowledge
	- acquired by basics, experiments, rules and regulations that commonly agreed by experts.

2. Heuristic Knowledge 
	- matter of knowing what to do and how to do by experience. 



**SYSTEM**

- an organized collection of elements that work together to accomplish a common goal.


Comparison between DATA & INFORMATION

| **DATA** | **INFORMATION** | 
| ---- | ----------- |
|      |             |

