---
dg-publish: true
---

# E - Commerce

- act of purchasing and selling physical goods or service over the internet.
- mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets as well as apps, allow customers to interact with businesses and make transactions.

- as a result of the introduction of free shipping, the e commerce industry's appeal has increased.

- an ecommerce model is a business concept that allows organizations and individuals to resell products and service via the internet.

EX- buying books, music, plane tickets, stock trading and online banking 


**Four main types of Ecommerce**

- **Business to business (B2B)** : sales of products and services directly between business
- **Business to consumer (B2C)** : Exchange of goods and services between companies and their clients
- **Consumer to consumer(C2C)** : Allow individuals to sell to one another
- **Consumer to business(C2B)** : Enables people to sell to businesses 



*B2B* 
- Transaction occurs between two or more businesses such as a manufacture and wholesaler  OR wholesaler and a retailer
- supply chain transactions between businesses are main types
- Communication between employees of two or more firms is referred to as B2B communication.
- Large corporate accounts and business to business transactions are standard practice for manufacturing companies.
- B2B transactions are also carried out by service providers.


*B2C*
- to selling directly to the end users of the product or service

EX- shopping at malls, eating out in restaurants 

- for B2C sales to be successful a company must have a positive relationship with its clients. So that B2C companies depends on more marketing.

	five common online B2C business models
	1. Direct sellers
	2. online intermediates
	3. Advertising based B2C
	4. Community based
	5. Fee based


**Advantages  of E-Commerce**

- convenience 
- Increased Selection

**Disadvantages of E-Commerce**

- Limited customer service
- Inability to obtain products immediately
- Inability to touch products