# Object Model

> [!definition]
> An object model is _a logical interface, software or system that is modeled through the use of_ object-oriented techniques.

### **Elements of the Object Model**

The four major elements of the object model (the conceptual framework of an object-oriented thing) are —

1. Abstraction
2. Encapsulation
3. Modularity
4. Hierarchy

and the three minor elements are —

1. Typing
2. Concurrency
3. Persistence.

The major elements are essential whereas the minor ones are useful but not essential. Now we try to elaborately define major elements and minor elements.

#### **Major Elements**

The major elements are listed below.

### **1. abstraction**

An abstraction denotes the essential characteristics of an object that distinguish it from all other kinds of objects. Thus it provides crisply defined conceptual boundaries, relative to the perspective of the viewer.

### **2. encapsulation**

Encapsulation is the process of compartmentalizing the elements of an abstraction that constitutes its structure and behavior.

### **3. modularity**

Modularity is the property of a system that has been decomposed into a set of cohesive and loosely coupled modules.

### **4. hierarchy**

Hierarchy is a ranking of ordering of abstractions. The two most important hierarchies in a complex system are its class structure (‘is a’ or Generalization/specialization) and object structure (‘part of’ or whole part). 

#### **Minor Elements**

The minor elements are listed below.

### ***typing

Concepts of typing derive primarily from theories of abstract data types. A type is a precise characterization of structural or behavioral which a collection of entities all share. 

### **concurrency**

It is the property that distinguishes an active object from one that is not active.

### **p****e****r****sistence

Is the property of an object through which its existence transcends time (i.e. the object continues to exist after its creator ceases to exist) and/or space (i.e. the object’s location moves from the address space in which it was created).